so that this time I'll talk about
machine reading with neural networks and
I think a lot of the people in the class
are doing projects somewhat related to
this in some way so I think there are a
lot of people who have also read a lot
about these topics and could comment on
things so if you're one of those people
please feel free to do so um but what is
machine reading or machine comprehension
basically the idea is that you want to
read you want to read a passage and well
maybe this is a narrow definition you
want to read a passage and understand
its contents basically and one way to
demonstrate that you've understood its
contents is by answering a question
about it in some way so a lot of machine
reading focuses on answering questions
about passages and then this is in
contrast to knowledge base style QA like
I talked about in this semantic parsing
lecture because in a knowledge-based lqa
you have a structured you have
structured data powering your QA engine
and you can you know look up things in
the in the structured data but here we
don't have structured data you need to
understand the information in the
passage that you're reading as well so
the way you can think about it is the
passage that you're meeting is your
knowledge base you need to do
information extraction from the passage
and then use that to answer your answer
your questions um so like I've been
doing in the in the recent things I'd
like to talk about a couple machine
reading tasks that people have tackled
recently so this is not a new thing at
all in fact machine reading has been
around for a long time I tried to do
this machine reading related stuff in
maybe 2000 like twelve or something like
that
and one thing I realized that is there's
no there was no good data for this
and you couldn't train a statistical
model to do things so what has really
changed between now and then is now
there's a whole bunch of really nice
datasets that you can use to train your
models um but anyway I've kind of split
these datasets into three different
categories where the boundaries are a
little bit fuzzy but one is multiple
choice questions where you basically
read a passage then try to answer
questions about it like the quizzes that
people are doing for this class
there's also spans selection ones where
basically you're given a document and
you want to extract a span from it
there's also clothes or fill in fill in
the blank style questions where you want
to fill in the blank in these are kind
of like a restricted form of span
selection but they have some unique
characteristics that can be useful no I
actually realized I forgot to put in
freeform question answering but as far
as I know there aren't really big
freeform question answering datasets
freeform machine reading datasets I
apologize where you have a passage and a
and a free-form style answer is
can anybody contradict me on this no
okay so I don't think there are any at
the moment but if if somebody can come
up with one please stop um so for the
first one multiple choice question tasks
there one kind of famous one that's
cited in a lot of the literature is MC
test which is a meat machine
comprehension test it's 500 passages
with 2,000 questions about simple
stories so if you look at the story
James the turtle was always getting in
trouble sometimes he'd reach into the
freezer and empty out all the food
what was the name of the troublemaking
turtle and the answer is James where you
have multiple questions so this is kind
of interesting it's handmade and it's
made to be really
pretty simple so you don't need to have
a lot of outside knowledge to try to
answer things here but unfortunately the
training data is very small um another
example is race this was a corpus it was
made here this is a large scale one from
with 28,000 passages and a hundred
thousand questions from English
comprehension tests I have looked at
this data and this is extremely
difficult like it's probably difficult
for many of the non-native speakers in
the in the room here to fully like read
it carefully and understand but I think
it's really easy it's also interesting
because most of the models I talk about
today do really poorly on the status in
terms of spam selection type data sets
one very famous one that you know is one
of the recommended or one of the
suggested tasks here that you know tons
of people are using is squad so this is
there are 500 Wikipedia questions and
then 10,000 crowd-sourced
500 Wikipedia passages in ten thousand a
hundred thousand crowd-sourced questions
and the questions and the answers look
like this
so in meteorology precipitation is any
product of condensation of the
atmospheric water vapor that falls under
gravity and then you have what causes
precipitation to fall in debt cetera etc
etc so one thing you can notice here is
that the questions the answers to the
questions are all contained in the
passage so because of this you don't
actually need to generate anything new
you just need to select where what your
answer is here so that makes your
problem a little bit easier in that you
don't have to like randomly generate
things and there's one obvious truth um
there's another one called trivia QA
basically the motivation behind this one
here is that
um Squad had 500 passages so it's not
over a huge number a wide variety of
things so this is over 95 K questions in
each question or the total number of
evidence documents that you can use to
answer the questions is 650 K and this
is created using distant distant
supervision type techniques which is
where you take tuples and you try to
answer based on this so there's a couple
a couple data sets like this as well and
another one is closed questions or fill
in the blank questions so basically one
very famous data set is the CNN Daily
Mail data set which was created sorry I
forgot the citation here but this is
Herman um and I like this paper a lot
for a number of reasons but one of the
reasons why I like it is say we're very
creative in their their way of creating
this data set so what they did was they
took articles from the BBC the CNN or
Daily Mail which is a British newspaper
then each of the so they detected the
entities in the submarine then they
deleted and then you had to read this
and try to fill in and that is good
but the problem is you say producer X
then if you know that we said title is a
producer which you might know or you
might not know then you can almost
automatically get it I just like looking
through all that he's actually figuring
out which one is a producer from your
large knowledge base like freebase so
what they did was they basically replace
all of the entities with a label so you
couldn't use this like external
knowledge and you actually had to reason
over the over the texture so yeah and
entities are analyzed so um these are
kind of the data sets that people tend
to work on and I'll be explaining the
models as we go forward and just keep in
mind that most of these models will be
tested on these data sets um are there
any questions so far like data sets that
I'm missing that I should be mentioning
oh so one thing I should mention is I'm
not mentioning just regular Qaid data
sets I'm specifically mentioning once
where you have a passage that you have
to read and answer from that so there
are of course lots of other QA so up
until now I presented a whole bunch of
models of neural network models for
various aspects of natural language
processing but whenever we whenever we
think about a a particular application
we should think about what's necessary
for it and how that motivates the design
of our models um so for machine reading
one of the biggest things that necessary
is that we must take a large amount of
information and extract only the salient
parts and
way that most people have done this is
through some variety of attention
because you know attention focuses on
the salient parts of the of the passage
that we're trying to use um specifically
they have been motivated by the way you
would answer a question yourself if you
had to read a passage and answer
questions so if you have if you have to
take a test and you have a passage that
you need to read into question what what
strategy do you take which one do you
read first question yeah I think a lot
of people here are saying question and I
think that's a good strategy so you
understand you read the question first
you know what you want to look for when
you read the passage then you go and
read the message so a lot of them a lot
of the models here will be kind of
motivated by that by that intuition um
another thing that's a little bit
different from what I've been talking
about previously is that some of these
require multi-step reasoning so the idea
behind multi-step reasoning is basically
you you can extract some information so
another thing you do when you read
passages is basically or when you take a
test is I think it's pretty common or at
least I use a strategy where you read
the question then you go and skim the
text for information that looks relevant
to the question you read that
information and then you realize that
okay I can answer the question now or
you realize oh I cannot answer the
question yet I need to read some other
surrounding information so you kind of
do this multi-step process of reasoning
about what kind of things you need to
answer the question and that is also
captured in some of the models okay
so I'll start out with some attention
models for machine reading type tasks I
think these are also useful for anybody
who's doing document processing even if
it's not QA but you have a document and
you want to and you want to do some sort
of processing related to it I'll
specifically talk about QA related modes
so I'll start out with a basic model for
document attention with respect to
machine reading so basically what you do
is you just encode the document and you
encode the question and then you
generated an answer either a sentence or
a single word or whatever so you have
something that looks like this and you
know this encoding function can be
whatever you want and how you define
this encoding function determines the
the strength of your model basically the
of course you could just run a big
convolutional neural network or whatever
we I talked about a bunch of sentence
and coding models and be easy to just
run them but unfortunately encoding
whole documents with high accuracy and
covering the information that you need
from the question is not an easy task so
those straightforward models don't work
incredibly well so the the first try for
this system is done on the CNN Daily
Mail dataset so the CNN Daily Mail
dataset if you remember is the closed
dataset with the entities so what
they're aiming to do is they're aiming
to predict the entity the correct entity
um so what they did there is they read
the query you first and then they attend
to the values in the context vectors so
the model looks like this they first run
a bi-directional Alice TM of the query I
didn't get you and they wrote a
bi-directional Alice
on the on the document and they get
coatings for each of the words in the
document and then they run attention
where this you do the score x y and here
the score is a function of the encoding
you and also the encoding of that
particular word so basically something
that looks relevant to the query um this
is a straightforward model that it seems
to it seems to work relatively well okay
so the next one is the impatient reader
so the idea here I actually kind of I
kind of like this model because it's
simple and kind of makes sense and and
follows how I would try to answer
questions on the test this one totally
doesn't make sense in all if you're a
human but if you're a computer it might
be a good idea um basically what you do
is you reread the document every time
you get a new query token and then you
update your understanding so the model
looks like this you do this encoding
type thing and then you take your
encoding for this word you do attention
over the entire document and you get a
vector then you take the encoding for
this word again you do an attention over
the entire document and you update the
vector then you take this word so this
is maybe not a horrible idea
um like I guess what it what it's trying
to say is you know every time you read a
word in the query that tells you what to
focus on in the in the document and then
you you update your information based on
that then you read the next word in the
query and you look for other relevant
information in the document so it's kind
of implementing a rudimentary type of
multi-hop reasoning but it seems very
strange to me to take a look at X and
then read the whole document read the
whole
document again um so this paper compared
the attentive reader in the impatient
reader with with the simple by Allah cm
encoder where you encode the query and
you encode the document all just in one
this one big sequence like this so you
just run up by us then you take the last
answer the question in the attention
based models worked better so that kind
of motivated the focus on attention and
these machine reading lines so um after
this this was a very nice idea this was
very well the idea of creating this big
data set and these models was very well
received and there was a lot of work on
this after that um one example of this
is the attention some reader so I think
this is a this is also a nice kind of
intuitive model for anything where you
need to pick out a single entity from a
document so instead of attending to the
document to get the representation you
instead basically perform attention as a
way to pick the entity in from all of
the entities so then the score of a
particular entity is the sum of the
attention scores over all mentions of
the entity so we have a illustration of
this here sorry that's kind of small but
basically Obama and Putin and said Obama
and Prague you can see Obama appeared
twice and we calculate the tension over
each mention
and then you when you return the sum of
dimensions so in this case a lot of
stores and in this did better than the
other other nodes then there is a
another model called attention /
attention so attention / attention is a
I kind of like this paper in some ways
because it says yeah we're the first to
perform attention / attention /
attention vectors which is luckily it's
kind of well motivated but I don't
really view it as a big achievements you
know you could do that but it only you
only do it if it makes sense but anyway
this model does actually make sense so
the idea is we want to know the document
words that match best with the most
important words in the query so
particular words in the query will
probably be very indicative of of the
thing that you want the answer so for
example if you have Mary what probably
England is going to be a very important
word in the query so you should you know
up weight anything that matches with
that well so the way the attention /
attention model does that is basically
um first we calculate representations
for each word in the query with a by GRU
then you take the dot product between
them so this is like dot product
attention scores and you give this
matrix then they you a column way
softmax to normalize over the columns
and then they do
mr. normalize over the roads then they
average they average with the roll
myself max take another dot product and
then they pick the entity with the
highest score and that kind of thing so
I looked at this when I first saw this
paper I looked at this for like five
minutes before I figured out what's
going on so probably everybody here is
kind of doing the same thing right now
but I'll make it a little bit easier on
you so this um this matrix up here is
saying which document words match each
query words so each column the row with
the highest score matches that query
word better than any of the other ones
so in this case probably will have a
very high probability close to one um
the second thing down here is saying
which words in the query seem important
for the document on the average so for
each word in the document you calculate
the the attention over the query words
and if a particular word and the query
seems very important to match very well
than if it's high score so you basically
get a weighting to say how important
each of the words in the query is and
then by taking this dot product you
basically sum over over all of these you
take the weighted sum over the red
matrix so that the more important query
words get more weight and then you do
the the attention some things mentioned
in the previous thank you
this do people get this right so um
that's this right here so this is this
is exactly the same as that that part is
exactly the same as the attentions over
here okay so I I think the this general
idea of doing direct attention in two
directions is is used in a lot of the
other ones that I'll talk about as well
so um so up until now I was talking
about picking particular words in a
document by summing up their attention
weights or whatever things get a little
bit more complicated when you want to
choose in the answer span so in spann
based models we basically need to choose
a multi-word spin like this so the
single word matching models choose a
single word or entity I should mention
that these models are also different
from things like any yarn so any are we
still label spans is being correct or
wrong if you remember might be might be
a person or a location or something like
that
multiple spins so that's the difference
between this this one has to pick the
one best um oh and one other thing that
I I forgot to mention is you can
evaluate these fans in a number of ways
you can either evaluate spans by the
exact match or you can evaluate them by
the number of words that you got correct
the F measure of words that you selected
that we're in the span or not so then if
you get
within if the correct answer is within a
cloud and then you just select cloud you
will still get partial credit um so this
bi-directional attention flow model is a
model that is quite popular there's
another model that came out it almost
exactly the same time that's doing
almost exactly the same thing called
dynamic couette engine networks but they
share the same intuition that you want
to attend to the sorry it should be
query you could say query to document
attention in document to query attention
in query to document attention I think
they call the document to context
attention in context to document
attention but basically it's the same
idea is the other one before of doing
attention in both directions and that
both representations are concatenated to
word representations themselves in the
document and then you use this to do
actually this
bi-directional attention flow could be
used for squad it could be a squad style
spam labeling thing it could also be
used for the CNN Daily Mail tasks it's
basically just a way to encode the words
so the way this works is very similar to
the previous one you have attention that
tends to be the contexts sorry the
context in the query you have one that
does attention over the that normalizes
over the words in the query given the
context words and because the length of
this attention part is the same as the
lane
[Music]
you can just directly concatenate these
that's another representation of the
word um the query to context one this
one is a little bit more this one is a
little bit more tricky because what
you're doing is you're calculating an
attention value for each your pick
relating an attention value for each
word in the context given each word in
the query so what they do is they take
the softmax over these values and then
they multiply the softmax over the words
in the query so basically you're
attending to each of the words in the
query and then you are so once you do
that you basically have three types of
representations for each word has its
regular word based representation it
also has its query to context
representation it has its context to
query representation and so now you have
basically an enriched representation of
each of the words in the document then
you run another by ostium on top of it
to combine together neighboring
representations and then you have a span
start in span to end classifier where
basically you calculate a softmax over
all of the you calculate a score
calculate a soft x over all of the
representations and predict the start
any questions about that
okay so this is this is a very nice
model for for calculating the start and
end but we have one major problem which
is that the softmax start in soft mist
and basically very they're they're
predicted more or less they're not
entirely independent but you don't have
any concept of the start and needing to
be particularly coherent or let's say
you picked the end value and suddenly
the start value doesn't seem like a very
good idea anymore so you have this kind
of problem of sequentially predictive
predicting things in a way that isn't
optimizing your overall goodness so
there's a slightly more intelligent way
of doing this
there is the dynamic spam decoder so
this is iterative we were finding your
left and right boundaries so a
conceptual diagram is something like
this you first calculate all your
representations of everything and then
you you basically calculate the
probability of the start and select then
you calculate give them the maximum
value of the start you calculate the
maximum value of the end then given the
maximum value of the end you calculate
the maximum value of the start and you
kind of iteratively refine until you
find something where but where you're
happy with the idea this is a way of a
slightly smarter way of decoding to get
any answer here um I think I actually I
think I actually forgot to add the slide
about this but recently there was a
paper that in addition to doing this
they used to read
for smooth learning type objective where
you actually considered the reward that
you get for for deciding this I think
it's called the DCN plus okay so that's
all for for selecting spans in I talked
about attention attention based models
and now it's to the multi-step reasoning
based models but are there any questions
about so far so I gave a motivation for
multi-step reasoning type models in very
abstract terms but just to give a very
concrete example it might become clear
that more information is necessary after
you've already examined the information
that you have so this is a very toy but
very good example of why this is
important so let's say where is the
football I think what everybody will do
here is you'll look at the second
sentence first and say John put down the
football and that doesn't tell you where
the football is but it tells you that
wherever John is this part was before he
put down the football it's probably
where it is so then you look at the
previous sentence and then you say okay
John was in the hallway when you put
down the football so the football must
be about um yeah so first you attend to
football then you attend to John and
this is you know it's it's
straightforward it's it seems like a
good idea
and one very simple way of incorporating
this is in a paper called memory
networks as I've said before the
definition of memory networks is very
this kind of vague so this particular
paper gives a particular instantiation
of a memory Network a very particular
instantiation of a memory Network
or document level QA but you could also
think of other things this memory
networks as well and there's lots of
other papers but in the specific QA
model that they're using oh I'm sorry
so let me let me give a definition of a
memory Network and memory network is
basically attention it's basically the
same thing as an attentional model and
they both came out at the same time
which is why two terms exist but they're
very very similar and that you are just
choosing which information in your large
database of information that you have to
to select so you can see how it looks
like an attentional model here so we
have a score for each of our vectors M
and we take the art max of the score and
then we this becomes our first index
0:01 and then with an addition they do
an additional argument step to get a
second element from memory condition of
the first so the you notice the first
step conditions on the input X and in
tries to find M memory that maximizes
score the second time they condition on
X and the thing that you have in your
memory from the previous inference them
so it's like a a two step attention
thing where you first attend to one
thing then you attend to another thing
so this is a hard attention where you
only have one thing you could basically
view it as in the 1011 then in the end
they you use X mo 1 and mo 2 to get your
answers so you input you input your
answer candidates W and the two memory
values and your input
so are there any questions about this
okay so they're the first memory Network
paper here that this is a pretty
interesting idea but it has a couple of
problems one is that you it's basically
only using two steps of memory to do
anything the other problem is said this
is using in arguments and this everybody
knows hard max is not differentiable so
it's not very easy to train this so the
the next paper this is called end to end
memory networks is basically they soften
the arguments by using a soft Mac so
they do the same thing that you do in
attention based models and they also add
multiple layers so the instead of just
going to may vary the number of layers
that you and they have this this memory
that then combines things together in a
soft manner instead of taking their
necks so so this is good of course
because if you do three hops you can
first attend to John in the way in the
example I gave you could first attend to
John then you can attend to the previous
sentence based on the fact that you saw
John put down the football but then you
didn't attend to the next thing if
necessary um okay so this make this begs
or that begs but this basically makes
you ask a very natural question so I can
use
many of these layers as I want I could
use 500 layers or whatever but that
would increase your computational costs
so when do I stop doing this so in the
first in several works they just
arbitrarily pick two like the one I said
before three and you have a single step
of looking up your memory or a couple
steps of looking up your memory and you
do the same number of steps every time
there's also a couple of alternative
methods for example this this paper here
has a special stop reasoning symbol so
here you're taking the arguments over
your memory over your memory and
basically they they have a like a blank
memory symbol that you can you can take
the arc max of that blank memory symbol
and that will give you that will say
basically stop I don't need I don't need
there was also a paper that has an
explicit stop rip recently predictor and
they used this to to decide when to stop
reasoning as well and you know both I
think particularly the second paper
claims said this is better than having a
fixed number of steps
another paper that I found interesting
but I haven't but I already talked about
actually is this course to find
question-answering
so you could kind of view this as a you
kind of view this as a multi-step
reasoning procedure as well so I thought
I'd mention it one more time
and it's also relevant to machine
learning but given a long document first
you decide which sentence to cover then
you do deep reasoning over that document
so basically you do given your query in
your document you do a cheap form of
sentence selection that allows you to
kind of figure out which things are of
relevance and then you do a form of the
answer generation then you do answer
generation based on these relevant
things you could even think about
something where you kind of combine this
with with multi-hop reasoning where you
did sentence selection once and then you
did reasoning that needed sentence
selection again but the authors didn't
do this partly because I think their
motivation was to answer things quickly
is supposed to answering things in the
most accurate way but I think that would
be interesting this well what people are
thinking about things
sorry the sentence selection part is
stochastic the answering part is just a
normal neural network but they're back
propagating using reinforcement learning
aggressively so this is a place where
reinforcement learning actually can be
expected to work kind of okay because
it's only picking binary variables it
doesn't have a big action space okay
so um I'd like I might finish a little
bit early today but I'd like to I'd like
to kind of wrap up with a caveat about
datasets so one one of the things I
mentioned was it's really great that we
now have these big datasets that can be
used to do machine reading but one
caveat to this is all datasets have
their biases and there's almost as many
papers complaining about how bad
particular datasets are as there are
papers about datasets so I think it's
definitely datasets are definitely not a
solved problem so no matter what the
task is of course we need to think about
our datasets and we need to know what
they look like so there was actually
maybe some people have seen this online
but there was this big debate on Twitter
and medium and stuff about the necessity
to look at your data in in natural
language processing where supposedly
language independent method included
data from the same language in the
training and test sets by accident
because they came from two tree banks so
there's two finished tree banks and the
universal dependencies and one of them
was in the training set and one of them
was the testing set so you need to look
at your data and be careful that you're
not doing any any things that don't make
very much sense but anyway no matter
what data set data bias matters so we
can have domain by us we might say that
we're causing we might say that we've
come up with this great model that
solves a lot of our problems but in
reality it might only work on a very
limited subset of language
there's also simplifications that we
make for our data sets so let's say we
reduce we remove all of the long
sentences in our data set to make
training or testing easier then maybe it
won't generalize as well if we get
longer another thing that I forgot to
add on this
slide but I realized I really should
have is a lot of people in this class we
have an implicit assumption that we're
working on English text and it might
work on English but not work on any
other languages or might not work on a
large number of other languages so
English is very morphologically poorer
for example English doesn't have a lot
of morphology so it might not work on
morphologically rich languages this one
is one thing that you could assume um in
particular for reading comprehension
real large-scale copy of write could
copyright free data sets are hard to
come by so because of this people have
been very creative in how they've tried
to get real ones but many data sets from
weak supervision have not been vetted
properly and these cause problems that
people have been thinking about so one
case study this is a very popular data
set baby which is an interesting idea
the idea is automatically generate
synthetic text aimed at evaluating
whether a model can learn certain
characteristics of language so the text
looks like this Mary went to the
bathroom John moved to the hallway here
he traveled to the office and then
where's Mary in the office and then you
have few supporting text jaundice in the
playground John picked up the football
Bob went to the kitchen etcetera and you
know humans can answer these things but
this is a very very limited subset of
English and this was kind of presented
as a way to this was presented in a way
to measure whether your system can do
various types of inference but in read
in reality you can do a lot by just
remembering patterns that are artifacts
of the data creation process um so the
main problem here is when papers
evaluate only on this extremely
simplified data set and then claim to
learn something natural about language
so we need to make sure we scope our
claims
properly and say you know we we didn't
create a language learner we created a
baby learner for the baby datasets and
then it seems to work well here but
whether it works on language or not is
not clear so I'd like to propose new big
slaw which is if you can write a
rule-based system to solve the data set
with a hundred percent accuracy very
quickly it's probably less interesting
than a real data set and I will also
give extra credit to anyone who can read
natural language processing with Prolog
and write a Prolog program to solve the
baby data sets I don't know how much
I'll give extra credit but if you
impress me I might give a few points but
in all seriousness this dataset is the
kind of data set that appears in this
text book as examples of how you can
write Prolog programs to solve a natural
language inference and everybody knows
now you can't write Prolog programs to
solve natural language inference which
is why you're in the neural networks for
NLP class as opposed to the Prolog
frienldy class so you know just be
careful whenever you see a new data set
think about could I write 500 lines of
code to solve this with a hundred
percent accuracy and if so maybe you
don't need to be training a neural
network to solve a um more realistically
even very nice-looking data sets I can
help their problems so this is a paper
on the CNN Daily Mail data set I think
basically the reason why this paper was
written was because some very very smart
people like Chris Manning at Stanford I
thought this data set was a really good
idea and started working on it then they
realized maybe it wasn't such a good
idea so they wrote a paper about their
experience and basically what it did is
it revealed very few sentences required
sent multi sentence reasoning which was
kind of the whole point of machine
reading you really want to do multi
sentence reasoning and make sure you're
understanding the text and the remaining
ones that were difficult to solve were
impossible for humans to solve also so
they had this nice categorization where
they say 113 percent can be solved by
exact match you can basically exactly
match the sentence two of them can be
solved by paraphrasing three of them 41
percent can be solved by paraphrasing 19
percent can be largely so blessing
simple textual clues that figure out how
close by looking how close the clue is
to the entity you can solve 19 percent
then 2 percent can be solved by
multi-step reasoning so only 2 percent
of the questions in this dataset are
actually interesting and then 8 percent
of the ones are problems because of the
code because the co-reference system
that the deep mind people use to create
this data set wasn't 100 percent
accurate so if there's a CO reference
here you can't solve the because the
datasets anonymize you can't solve the
question so eight percent are unsolvable
17 percent you have um you have
something like entity entity ten entity
95 and entity seventeen went there
yesterday and the question is who went
there yesterday and the answer is entity
95 so you it's very difficult to pick
the correct one just just by doing that
so that's the remaining 17% and then
their model got something like 72
percent accuracy so they only had three
per had got some amount of the accuracy
that it wouldn't be
like interesting to work out the status
at anyway so after this I think this was
one of the motivations behind creating
squad or other datasets that we're
better for this another really
interesting paper that some people may
have seen it was one of the outstanding
papers in iam NLP is adversarial
examples of machine readings so
basically the idea is you add a sentence
or word string specifically designed to
distract the model so what you do is you
take the question what city did Tesla
move to and they take the sentence the
sentence and they change to be different
entities and then then they add this to
the end of the end of the passage to the
very last sentence of the passage and
then suddenly all these models that were
trained on squad there got 81 percent
accuracy now drop down to 46 percent
accuracy which shows that despite the
fact that we thought the these were very
kind of clever models that we're solving
natural language inference actually
they're still relying very heavily on
these kind of surface level cues and RNA
actually reasoning about things so I I
really like both of these papers because
they kind of pick apart and you know
come up with the things that we expect
the model to be bad at and demonstrate
or particularly this one picks out the
things that we expect the model to be
badass and it turns out it was really
bad at it so now we can think about ways
to create things out of all of us um so
then it's a little bit early to finish
but are there any questions
it just seemed to me like start to
require human knowledge or outside
knowledge um it very it very much might
be true um what is human knowledge like
what types of I'm sure so it might
require it might require human knowledge
but like what one example would what
would be an example well it's coming
it's common sense
this is from the baby data set and
probably the babies data set contains a
lot of these examples so it can kind of
learn when it finds the word put down it
means to look at the previous sentence
or something like that so I agree that
that would be difficult there are kinds
of things that qualify as human
knowledge that actually neural models
can model very well which is things like
[Music]
like entailment of nouns or is relation
so if you have word embeddings you know
similar words tend to be clustered in
similar places and stuff like that so
they can do things that seem really
clever but are actually just a result of
having a very good sense of paraphrasing
or similarity or there's stuff like that
so I think knowledge is a very vague
term which can mean a lot of different
things so some things know that works
probably handle very well some things
like this is kind of like it event
not event but like verb verb based
entailment spatial reasoning etc and
stuff like that I think it's not clear
whether off-the-shelf models can do that
but you know maybe they can maybe pick
out anything else well so that's a good
that's a good point but you'll notice
that the attention so who visited Prague
is the question so of course in in
Prague the word before that if the
attention is working properly will give
something very high atmosphere so if you
put Putin your who visited Prague would
probably give me the answer so I think
that's not really necessarily a problem
especially if you have a good sense of
like
anything else
okay cool thanks a lot everyone